1. A shop stores customer id and their orders in a dictionary. How will you update the price of an existing item in a customer order.

Answer: Access the item using its key and assign a new value.
	Example: 
		orders[customer_id][item] = new_price

2. A customer adds a new item to an already placed order. Which dictionary operation will you use to modify the order.

Answer: Use key assignment to add a new key-value pair.
	Example: 
		orders["new_item"] = price

3. A restaurant wants to increase the price of all items in an order by 10. How can this be done using dictionary values.

Answer: Using dictionary comprehension we can achieve this.
	Example: 
		{k: v * 1.10 for k, v in order.items()}

4. An order contains many items. How will you calculate the total bill using dictionary methods.

Answer: Use the values() method and apply sum().
	Example: 
		total = sum(orders.values())

5. A customer cancels one item from the order. How will you remove that item from the dictionary.

Answer: Use the pop() method with the item name.
	Example:
		orders.pop("item_name")

6. A system needs to update multiple items in an order at the same time. Which dictionary method is suitable and why.

Answer: Use the update() method because it updates multiple key-value pairs at once.
	Example:
		orders.update({"item1": price1, "item2": price2})

7. An item name may or may not exist in the order. How will you safely access its price without getting an error.

Answer: Use the get() method.
	Example:
		price = orders.get("item_name", 0)

8. A shop wants to check whether a customer has ordered Pizza. Which dictionary feature will you use.

Answer: Use the in keyword to check the key.
	Example:
		"Pizza" in orders

9. An order dictionary is empty.
How can you add items dynamically to it.

Answer:
Add items using key assignment.
Example:
orders["Burger"] = 120

10. A restaurant stores orders for multiple customers. How will you loop through the dictionary to print each customer total bill.

Answer: Use a loop with items() and calculate the sum of values.
	Example:
		for customer, order in orders.items(): 
			print(customer, sum(order.values()))

11. A food delivery app removes the last added item from an order. Which dictionary method will be used.

Answer: Use the popitem() method.

12. A student record dictionary contains name, age, and marks. Which item will be removed when popitem is used and why.

Answer: The last inserted item will be removed because dictionaries follow insertion order.

13. A shop mistakenly added a wrong item price. How will you correct only that item without affecting others.

Answer: Update the specific key with the correct value.
	Example:
		orders["item_name"] = correct_price

14. A program needs to merge new order items with existing order. Which dictionary method will you use.

Answer: Use the update() method.
	Example - order.update(new_items)

15. A customer order dictionary is cleared after payment. Which dictionary method is used and what will be the result?

Answer: Use order.clear() → dictionary becomes empty