1. what is the difference between delete and drop? 
2. what is the difference with drop and truncate? 
3. explain acid properties? 
4. how many types of normalization's are there? 
5. fetch the second highest salary from the employee and the department? 
6. explain crud in the DBMS ? 
7. what is entity diagram? 
8. how do you describe the relationship? 
9. difference between unique key and primary key? 
10. why do we use NOT NULL?

Answers :

1. Difference between DELETE and DROP

DELETE removes selected rows from a table using a WHERE clause. The table structure remains, and it can be rolled back (if transaction is used).
DROP completely removes the table from the database, including its structure and data. It cannot be rolled back.

2. Difference between DROP and TRUNCATE

DROP deletes the entire table structure and data permanently.
TRUNCATE removes all records from a table but keeps the table structure intact. It is faster than DELETE and cannot be rolled back.

3. ACID properties
ACID ensures reliable database transactions:

Atomicity: A transaction is all-or-nothing.
Consistency: A transaction moves the database from one valid state to another.
Isolation: Transactions do not interfere with each other.
Durability: Once committed, data remains permanent even after failure.

4. Types of normalization
There are 5 main normal forms:

1NF – No multi-valued attributes
2NF – No partial dependency
3NF – No transitive dependency
BCNF – Stronger version of 3NF
4NF & 5NF – Deal with multi-valued and join dependencies

5. Fetch the second highest salary from employee and department

Second highest salary (overall):
SELECT MAX(salary) FROM employee WHERE salary < (SELECT MAX(salary) FROM employee);

Second highest salary department-wise:
SELECT department_id, MAX(salary) FROM employee e1 WHERE salary < (SELECT MAX(salary) FROM employee e2 WHERE e1.department_id = e2.department_id) GROUP BY department_id;

6. CRUD in DBMS
CRUD represents basic database operations:

Create – Insert data
Read – Retrieve data
Update – Modify data
Delete – Remove data

7. Entity diagram
An Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) is a visual representation of database structure showing entities, attributes, and relationships.

8. Relationships are defined as:

One-to-One
One-to-Many
Many-to-Many
They are shown using lines between entities with cardinality.

9. Difference between UNIQUE key and PRIMARY key

Primary Key uniquely identifies records and cannot be NULL. Only one per table.
Unique Key ensures uniqueness but allows one NULL value. Multiple allowed per table.

10. Why we use NOT NULL
NOT NULL ensures that a column always contains a value and prevents missing or incomplete data.