Ans 1) main difference between Delete and drop is:

Microsoft Edge

a) Rollback: Delete command can be rollback where as drop command can't be rollback.

b) Delete is a DDL, command where as Drop is DML command.

c) Delete removes selected rows , whereas Drop command removes table and data completely.

Ans 2) a) Drop command deletes the entire table or database where as truncate command deletes all rows but retain table structure.

       b) both cannot be rollback

Ans 3) ACID: a) Atomicity: "A transaction happens completely or not at all". That is if one part fails, everything is rolled back. Example: Money is debited from my account but it is not credited into another account the transaction is cancelled.

             b) CONSISTENCY: A transaction keeps the database in a valid state. That is if i have send 50 rupee to a friend then my account balance should be updated as value 50rs and My friends account should reflect Initial Value 50 cs.

             c) Isolation: Multiple transactions do not interfere with each other. Each transaction behaves as if it is running alone.

             d) Durability: Once a transaction is commited, it is saved permanently. Data is safe even after a power failure or system crash.

Ans 4) There are mainly five types of normalization: 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, BCNF, 4NF, and 5NF. In practice, up to 3NF or BCNF is mostly used.


Ans 5) SELECT salary
       From employee 
       ORDER BY salary DESC 
       LIMIT 1 OFFSET 1;

Ans 6) CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. These are the basic operations used to manage data in a database.

Ans 7) An Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) is a diagram that shows entities, their attributes, and the relationships between them

Ans 8) Relationships are described as one-to-one, one-to-many, or many-to-many, based on how entities are connected.

Ans 9) Unique Key: Only unique 
       Primary key: Unique + not null

Ans 10) We use NOT NULL to make sure a column always has a value and does not stay empty.