1.what is the difference between delete and drop?

Delete:
Delete is a Data manipulating language command
Delete is a temporary command to make it permenant we use TCL(Transaction control language) command COMMIT.
Delete is slower than the drop and truncate.
In delete we use where condition to delete specigic record.
Delete operation can be undo.

Drop:
It is a Data definition language Command.
It is used to delete the table from database.
Deleted tables will be stored in recycle bin.
To delete the table from recycle bin we use flashback command.
Drop is a permanent command.



2.what is the difference with drop and truncate?

Drop:
It is a Data definition language Command.
It is used to delete the table from database.
Deleted tables will be stored in recycle bin.
To delete the table from recycle bin we use flashback command.
Drop is a permanent command.

Truncate:
It is a Data definition language Command.
It is used to delete all the records permanently.
Truncate is a permanent command.
Truncate is slower than drop.
In truncate we cannot use where condition to delete specific records.
Truncate operation cannot be undo.


3.Explain acid properties?

A. ACID properties ensure reliable processing of database transactions, standing for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.
Atomicity: 
This principle states that database transactions must be all or nothing. If the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back. Atomicity prevents partial and incomplete transactions.
Consistency: 
According to this property, only valid data is written to the database. Consistency enforces integrity constraints to maintain the accuracy and correctness of data.
Isolation: 
Running transactions independently is the core of isolation. Changes in one transaction will not impact others until committed. Isolation maintains data integrity across concurrent transactions. 
Durability: 
Durability guarantees that all committed transactions are permanently recorded in the database. They persist even after system failure. Durability provides recoverability.



5.How many types of normalization's are there?

A.There are mainly 6 types of normalizations in Database Management Systems
1NF (First Normal Form): Ensures that each column contains atomic values and each record is unique.
2NF (Second Normal Form): Ensures that all non-key attributes are fully functional on the primary key.
3NF (Third Normal Form): Ensures that all non-key attributes are fully functional on the primary key and independent of each other.
BCNF (Boyce-Codd Normal Form): A refinement of 3NF that requires every determinant to be a candidate key.
4NF (Fourth Normal Form): Ensures that there are no multiple independent multi-valued facts about an entity in a record.
5NF (Fifth Normal Form): Also known as "Projection-Join Normal Form" (PJNF), it pertains to the reconstruction of information.
These normalizations help in reducing redundancy, improving data consistency, and ensuring data integrity in a database. 



6.Fetch the second highest salary from the employee and the department?

A. select salary from 
   (select salary from 
    (select distinct salary from employee order by salary desc) 
       where rownum<=2) 
         order by salary asc) 
            where rownum<=1;
                                                              or

   select min(salary) from 
    (select distinct salary from employee order by salary desc) 
       where rownum<=2;



6.Explain crud in the dbms?

A.In Database Management Systems (DBMS), CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and Delete — the four fundamental operations used to manage persistent data in relational or NoSQL databases. These operations are primarily implemented using SQL DML (Data Manipulation Language) commands.

Create – Adds new records to a table using the INSERT statement.
Read – Retrieves data using the SELECT statement.
Update – Modifies existing records using the UPDATE statement.
Delete – Removes records using the DELETE statement.




7.What is entity diagram?
A. It is used to show the relationship between one entity to another entity.This model represents the logical structure of a database, including entities, their attributes and relationships between them.

Entity: An entity is a thing or object in the real world.
Attribute: Properties that describes an entity.
Relationship: A connection between entities.



8.How do you describe the relathionship?
A. Relationship is a connection between entities.
There are 4 types of relationships:
one to one-(1 entity can related with only 1 entity).
one to many-(1 entity can related with n number of entities).
many to one-(n number of entities can related with only 1 entity).
many to many-(n number of entities can related with n number of entities).



9.Difference between unique key and primary key?
A.
Unique key:
It accepts only unique values.
It accept null values.
It will not accept duplicate values.
In a 1 table we can have n number of unique values.

Primary key:
It accepts only unique values.
It accept only not null values.
It not accept duplicate values.
It not accept null values.
It is a combination of unique and not null.
In a table we can declare only 1 primary key.


10.why do we use NOT NULL?
A. We use not null constraint to ensure that a column in a table cannot contain NULL values.









