
 DBMS

1. DBMS stands for Database Management System.
2. It is software used to store and manage data.
3. Data is stored as files or in non-tabular formats.
4. It does not support relationships between data.
5. Data redundancy is high in DBMS.
6. It supports single or limited multiple users.
7. Security features are limited.
8. Data integrity constraints are not strictly enforced.
9. It does not always use SQL.
10. Example: File systems, Microsoft Access.

 RDBMS

1. RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.
2. It is an advanced form of DBMS.
3. Data is stored in tables (rows and columns).
4. Relationships are created using primary and foreign keys.
5. Data redundancy is minimized.
6. It supports multiple users efficiently.
7. It enforces data integrity constraints.
8. SQL is used for data operations.
9. Normalization is supported.
10. Example: MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL.


Instagram as an Example

Instagram is a social media platform used to share photos and videos.it manages a very large amount of data generated by millions of users daily.
To handle this efficiently, Instagram uses both DBMS and RDBMS.

Use of DBMS in Instagram

DBMS is used to store large media files such as images and videos.
These files are stored as raw data in cloud or distributed storage systems.
DBMS is suitable because media files do not require relationships.
It provides fast access and efficient storage for large files.


Use of RDBMS in Instagram

RDBMS is used to store structured data like user details, posts, likes, and comments.
Data is stored in tables with rows and columns.
Relationships are maintained using primary and foreign keys.
This helps link users with their posts and interactions.

SQL Query Example

RDBMS uses SQL to retrieve and manage data.
Example query to get all likes of a post:
SELECT * FROM Likes WHERE post_id = 101;

When a user opens Instagram, the image is fetched from DBMS storage. User information, captions, and likes are fetched from RDBMS tables.
Using both DBMS and RDBMS makes Instagram fast, reliable, and scalable.

