Q.1) What is the difference between delete and drop?
Ans:-

DELETE is used to remove specific records from a table, and the table structure remains the same.
We can use a WHERE condition with DELETE to remove selected rows.
DROP completely removes the table along with its data and structure.Once a table is dropped, it cannot be recovered.

Q.2) What is the difference between DROP and TRUNCATE?
Ans:-

TRUNCATE removes all rows from a table but keeps the table structure intact.It is faster because it does not log each row deletion.
DROP deletes the entire table including its structure.After DROP, the table no longer exists in the database.

Q.3) Explain ACID properties in DBMS.

Ans:-
Atomicity means a transaction is fully completed or not done at all.
Isolation means no one transaction affects another.
Consistency ensures the database remains in a valid state.
Durability guarantees that committed data is permanently saved.

Q.4) How many types of normalization are there?.

Ans:-
Normalization is used to organize data and reduce redundancy.
There are mainly five normal forms: 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, BCNF, and 4NF.
Each normal form removes a specific type of data dependency.

1NF (First Normal Form):
Ensures that each column contains atomic (single) values and no repeating groups.

2NF (Second Normal Form):
Removes partial dependency, meaning non-key attributes depend on the whole primary key.

3NF (Third Normal Form):
Removes transitive dependency, where non-key attributes depend on other non-key attributes.

BCNF (Boyce-Codd Normal Form):
A stronger version of 3NF where every determinant is a candidate key.

Q.5) Fetch the second highest salary from the employee and the department?

Ans:-
SELECT MAX(e.salary) AS second_highest_salary
FROM employee e
WHERE e.salary < (
    SELECT MAX(salary)
    FROM employee
);

Q.6) explain crud in the dbms?

Ans:-
CRUD represents the four basic database operations.
Create is used to insert new data into a table.Read is used to retrieve or view data.Update modifies existing data, and Delete removes data.

Q.7) what is entity diagram?

Ans:-
An entity diagram is a visual representation of a database.It shows entities, their attributes, and relationships.
Entities usually represent real-world objects like students or employees.It is mainly used during database design.

Q.8) how do you describe the relathionship?

Ans:-
One-to-One means one entity is linked to one entity.
One-to-Many means one entity is linked to multiple entities.
Many-to-Many means many entities are linked to many entities.

Q.9) difference between unique key and primary key?

Ans:-
A primary key uniquely identifies each record in a table.It cannot contain NULL values and only one primary key is allowed.
A unique key also ensures uniqueness but can allow one NULL value.Multiple unique keys can exist in a table.

Q.10) why do we use NOT NULL?

Ans:-
NOT NULL ensures that a column always has a value.It prevents missing or incomplete data.It improves data accuracy and reliability.Commonly used for important fields like ID or name.





